---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

# Project Evaluation

Today's blog post is a shot and simple discussion on the two projects that I was able to look at this week. I will give my observation and opinions on them based on the assignment that was given to us in class.

### Gatsby

For our assignment this week we had to evaluate a project of our choosing. My group chose to look at a project called Gatsby. Gatsby is a web framework for fast websites. As a group we had to answer questions such as, "What is the project license?" or "Is the code easy to understand?". I thought this was a nice way to learn how to tell which projects are ideal to contribute to and which projects are not so welcoming. Gatsby seems like a great project to spend time to understand and contribute to. The community seemed very welcoming from their comments on issues and in their chat. The project itself is very active with lots of issues and pull requests being reviewed on a regular basis.

### Jupyter Notebook

This time instead of a group working on evaluating a project together, each person in the class will pick a project and look at it on their own. I chose [Jupyter Notebook](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook) because it was in the top 5 projects that came up when I searched for JavaScipt projects on [CodeTriage](https://www.codetriage.com/?language=JavaScript). It was fairly easy to evaluate this project, the repository hosted on GitHub answered many of the questions in the assignment. The project is very active with issues being posted every week. The comments on the issues are very friendly and helpful to the contributors. In addition the pull requests are given a thorough review by the maintainers and if necessary the maintainers express their opinions and any changes they think the pull requests needs before merging it to the master. The maintainers even give constructive responses to questions and have a lively discussion on their chat. Overall i found this project very well maintained and the community seems very welcoming to all contributors, including those who are trying to make their first contribution to an open source project. I can see myself making my first contribution to Jupyter Notebook.
