---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

# Bill Reyner's Vist and Picking our Projects

### Bill Reyner and FactSet

On October 17th, Bill Reyner from [FactSet](https://www.factset.com/) came to visit us. His talk on how open source is utilized in a business and corporation setting was very intriguing. He explaied how FactSet uses open source software and benefits off it. Open source software is free to use and free as in "free beer", so it is hard to visualize how big corporations such as FactSet can profit from it. But there is so many factors to consider when a corporation decides to use open source cause one small mistake cause cost them millions of dollars. As Bill was talking we learned that FactSet is careful when they choose to incorporate a piece of open software, they have to pay close attention to the license that the software is using. Almost all open software that is under the GPL license can't be used because after merging the code, they have to open up all their code. This will force them to open up any proprietary code that could benefit their competition. The detail that I found most interesting about open source in a corporation is that they don't really use or release open software to gain a direct profit. However they use the open source community as a strategy to promote their business and further get their name out in the world. Bill Reyner's visit was very informative and gave a great insight in to business's thought process when debating over using open source software.

### Picking our Projects

So it's finally time for us to pick a project where we will contribute and devote time to. It was definitely a little hard for me to find a project I would like to work on because at the start of the semester I was set on working on a project that involves google extensions. However, when I looked at various google extension projects on GitHub, I notice that they weren't well maintained or only had 1 or 2 contributor. So I turned to [CodeTriage](https://www.codetriage.com) to find a project I can work on. I filtered through the projects that have C++ as their primary coding language. I wanted to work on a project called [Kodi](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc). However as I looked through the issues and code I felt like this project might be too complicated for me. I kept looking through CodeTriage and I finally found a project that I believe might be suitable for me, called [LMMS](https://github.com/lmms/lmms). This week I am going to try to install the development environment and select an issue to work on.
