---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

# My Experience with the In Class Git Activity, the Blog Editing Activity and My Reaction to the On-line Readings

### In Class Git Activity

I'm a very hands on learner. If I want some concept to stick in my head I need to try it out first hand and experience it myself. The git activity I did in class was very helpful. It gave me a chance to work with some of my classmates and practice git. I've had some experience using git and I'm familiar with the workflow, however I still found this activity to be fun. The idea behind it was very interesting and I found the exercise a great way to experience merge conflicts. While doing the activity I encountered at least two merge conflicts while pushing my changes to the remote repository. These were very simple conflicts that required easy edits to merge. 

### Blog Editing Activity

Activity: [Blog Editing Activity](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/activities_f19/blog_editing_activity.pdf)

This activity required us to read each other's blog post and edit them. We had to follow a work flow and in the end make a pull request with all the changes you have made to the individuals blog post. I found this activity very helpful in getting used to a workflow and creating a proper pull request. I edited a blog post by a classmate with the username Nerouse. I read through their week 1 post and created 5 issues that highlighted either spelling errors or grammatical errors. i was able to make a pull request without any conflicts, using the workflow that was written in the activity. Here is the link to the [pull request](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/Nerouse-weekly/pull/7) that I made.

There are some differences between the workflow that was presented in the slides shown in class the workflow that was described in the  activity. In the workflow that was presented in class we are supposed to pull down the recent copy of the master before pushing any changes to the fork. This is required because it keeps your fork up to date to the original repository before ur changes are added to it.


### On-line Reading Reaction

On-line Readings:

* [A Beginner‘s Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39)
* [7 Things That Make a Great Open Source Contribution](https://blog.newrelic.com/2014/11/05/open-source-contribution/)
* [How to Contribute to Open Source](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/)

These readings were very insightful and motivational to read, especially "A Beginner's Very Bumby Journey Through The World Open Source". Shubheksha, the author, wrote an article about her struggles to contribute to open source and how she over came them. Unlike other articles that just give you a generic list of advice on how to start contributing to open source, Shubheksha describes how you don't have to be extremely knowledgable to contribute to an open source project.

Shubheksha explained that not all open source project maintainers are welcoming to new comers through her own experience in the open source community. This is something I thought about when I was first exposed to the open source community. Questions such as "Will I look stupid if I ask this question?" or "How will they react to my work?" always popped in my head every time I thought about working on an open source project. However this article showed me that its okay to ask questions about something I don't know much about. Its better to ask questions and do something right than to stay confused and mess it up. Just like Shubheksha I have to find a project with a welcoming community where I am able to make worth while contributions to.




