---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

# Comments on Guest Speaker Karen Sandler and My Journey to Finding a Good Project

### Guest Speaker Karen Sandler

On October 3rd [Karen Sandler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Sandler) visited our class as a guest speaker. She discussed her work and her history with open source. The story she shared about the defibrillator implanted in her was very eye-opening. Her story showed us how important open source is and how it can have an effect on someone's life. In addition, I learned a lot about how licenses work and the rights people have on project they own and contributed to. I have a better understanding of the legal side of owning an open source projects and the code that people have contributed.

### Finding a Good Project

When I joined the class I already had an idea on what type of projects I want to work on. I wanted to find and contribute to Google Chrome extension application. However when I started to look for project that fell under Chrome extensions, I realized that none of them were open source. The Chome extension projects that ive looked at so far either didn't have a license document or a contributing document. In addition some of the projects only had one or two people working on it and the set up for the repository didn't make it seem like an open source project. I decided that I needed give up on Chrome extension applications and look for a different project. I used [CodeTriage](https://www.codetriage.com/) to look for a suitable first project to contribute to. I filtered the list of repositories to look for projects with Javascript. There were many projects listed under Javascript but the one that caught my eye was [First-Contributions](https://github.com/firstcontributions/first-contributions). CodeTriage described the project as a way to get beginners contributing to open source. I thought this could be the perfect first project to get my feet wet in and just test out what I learned so far in class. The project has an MIT License and has a Contributors document. The project also is very active, the most recent pull request made was 30 min ago and issues posted 2 days ago. I believe I can make my first contributions in this project.

### This Week's Summary

