---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# Thoughts on The Cathedral and the Bazaar and Project Progress

### The Cathedral and the Bazaar

The [Cathedra and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html) is not a new read for me, however every time I have read it I always learn something or have a new perspective on open source. The book explains the differences between two free software development modes; the cathedral mode and the bazaar mode. 

* The Cathedral Mode: The source code is available after every software release, but only an exclusive group of developers have write access and are able to edit the project's code.

* The bazaar Model: The source code and the right to develope the project is available to everyone in the public over the internet. Anyone and everyone who wants to can help develope the code of the project.

In this book Raymond lists 19 good practices in an open source project he learned.  Out of the 19 points that Raymond emphasizes in the book the three that I found the most interesting are: 

1. > Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).

Laziness might be frowned upon by many people in the world, but when you're a developer it is the best quality. There is no point in creating a feature or a tool that already exist, it's like your re-inventing the wheel. If the code works why not just use. Knowing how to implementing an existing code in to your own project shows how well you can understand the language and read code.

2. > Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.

No code is perfect, there is always room for improvement. Your first attempt at a problem won't be the most efficient or even right. It always good to know that your going to start over no matter how well your first attempt is. 

3. > If you have the right attitude, interesting problems will find you.

I found this point important when you're looking for project to work on. Every issue, every project will seem boring or hard if the developer is they are treating the project as an assignment.

### Project LMMS

[LMMS](https://github.com/LMMS/lmms) is open source, cross-plateform environment to produce music. It is a free alternative to programs like [FL Studio](https://www.image-line.com/flstudio/). I am familiar and have used FL Studio before, so when I saw that there is a free application that mimics FL Studio it sparked my interest. 
